---
title: Managing assets and Deployment
---

## Loading local / online resources
There are three headers for loading local / online resources, namely the `load_library`, `load_script` and `load_data`.

- `load_library` is for loading modules supported by this package and from a curated set of JavaScript libraries. At the time of writing, it supports

    - JavaScript libraries: **mathjs**, **tensorflow**, **p5**, **chart**, **plotly**, **d3**, **vegalite**, **ramda**,
    - styling libraries: **fontawesome**, **ionicons**, **tailwind**, and
    - modules: **dom**, **io**, **websocket** and **testthat**.

- `load_script` is for loading JavaScript / CSS stylesheets from online links (use with care) or local files.

- `load_data` is for loading local data (e.g. CSV and JSON files).

In general, online resources are embedded as links, while local resources are embedded using [data URI scheme](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_URI_scheme).

## Deployment
Depending on the use case, there are a few ways to share / deploy your application.

### Deploy the source files
The easiest way to share is to share your source R files. This allows your user to examine and modify the application, but it requires them to have R and **sketch** installed. If the R file is a single-script application, others can even use `load_script` to access the file via a link should you host it online.

### Deploy the HTML file
The second way to deploy is to share the HTML file generated by **sketch**.

To get the HTML file, note that when the `source_r` function is run, it returns invisibly the temporary path of the HTML file it generates. One can use the R command `file.copy` to copy the file to the working directory and share that file with others.

The advantage of deploying an HTML file is that it does not require R installation, and it can be deployed to anywhere that serves static websites (e.g. Github, Netlify).

By default, all local resources you use are embedded into the HTML file, so it is sufficient to share only the HTML file instead of sending over a file with a folder of assets attached.

If you need the application to work offline, you could use the R command `download.file` to save the online resources into files and call `load_script` on the local files instead of the online links. This makes the HTML file completely self-contained (with a larger file size).

### Deploy the JavaScript file
If you are developing a library or some general utility functions, you can call `compile_r` to turn R files into JavaScript files, instead of calling `source_r` which generates and wraps everything into an HTML.

Then you can deploy the JavaScript files online (e.g. NPM, Github) and take advantage of CDN services like [jsdelivr](https://www.jsdelivr.com/).

### Deploy as a binary
For users who are looking to develop standalone mobile / desktop / server applications, which are considered as stretched goals of this package, it is recommended to look into [Progressive Web App](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps/Introduction), [Electron JS](https://www.electronjs.org/) and [Deno](https://deno.land/) (see [Deno v1.6 release note](https://deno.land/posts/v1.6) in particular). They are all developed for JavaScript, and they help users set up the necessary infrastructure to achieve portability to the desired platforms.

